1.1
a) Intelligence - X is intelligent if I believe that it has a mental model of the world.
This hinges on my _belief_ , I'm using my own psychological state as a measuring instrument, and that has a mental model - which distinguishes intelligence from
purely reactive mechanisms such as thermostats, from my dog.

b) AI - The attempt to create intelligence in a nonbiological way, and the body
of computing techniques that have grown from it, notably methods for solving 
problems for which there is no obvious algorithm. I note that the computing techniques
have proven to be so valuable that the failure of the long term goal is to some
extent besides the point.

c) A thing that reacts to it's environment

d) An agent is rational if we cannot, by any means, find a way to reliably improve it's choices of action when given the same information it possessed at the time.
'by any means' includes asking a human.
Now, I started to write 'gathering a room full of human experts'.
Suppose my car breaks down along the highway. Now reasonably I might be expected to have less chance of getting my car going than a room full of expert auto mechanics. Yet I'm reluctant to call my actions in this case irrational. In a sense the roomful of auto mechanics has more information - they've seen this problem before.
On the other hand, I'm reluctant to grant rationality to a chatbot that spouts inappropriate text on the grounds that it didn't know better.
Interestingly, questions of agency often arise in ethics. Suppose a 7 year old shoots a playmate with a handgun left lying about the house. Now suppose a 17 year old shoots someone. We clearly hold the 17 year old responsible, but not perhaps as much as a 27 year old. 
http://www.nephitimesnews.com/0500/052400/1.htm

e) Logical reasoning - reasoning is logical if it's conclusions flow from it's assumptions by the rules of logic, and if the form of the argument follows those rules.

1.2
Which objections still carry weight?
Well, this section is sort of a "nonsense people have spouted at me, and what I do to make them go away" section. So 'still carry weight' contains the premise that they actually carried weight then

1) Think the decrease in the power of the church in most people's lives has made this slightly silly.

2) Still an open question. I'm currently working on a project titled friendularity

3) Still the same silly argument

4) At Strange Loop there was a performance art piece that included some of this. 
So I'd say this counts as 'still open

5) This is a form of casuistry. YOu can always come up with something else it 'can't do'.

6) Lovelace's objection still occasionally surfaces, but the increasing breadth of what we're seeing computers do is making it difficult to believe.

7) I think this argument's dead - most people now understand how large sets are approximated by continuity

8) Again this seems pretty specious - the successful areas of AI have made it an iffy proposition.  After all, spam filters don't have a specific rule programmed in about nigeria, they just learn (for most users, not for the american guy whose wife and business are in nigeria) that nigeria is usually a word in spam.

9) This one makes me wonder what Turing himself was thinking. ESP? 

Turing test success - 
The Loebner prize seems to be closing in on it
Yes, I think we'll have something somewhere between passing a Turing test and a true AGI in 50 years. I don't think we'll wake up to it one day - we'll jsut get better at writing such things. Siri will be somebody you might want to have a real conversation with one day.

1.3
Yes, they're rational (it's better to flinch than not)
Are they intelligent - no.  

1.4
Testing professionals have a saying 'an instrument measures what it measures'
So by definition, yes, it has an IQ of 200 - on the other hand, that's a measure of the poverty of intelligence tests, not the intelligence of the program.

1.5
assuming 'cycle time' for a human neuron is 1 msec. 
it's about 20,000 x 1000/sec = 2e7 /sec

1.6
Yes, of course. We all misreport introspection.
when I was in high school I was doing experiments on the Curie temperature of water.  I was keeping dry ice in my room.
Usually I'm not much of a coke drinker.  But during this period I kept craving cokes, and my consumption went up sharply. I only realized this after a week or so. During that week I was doing a fairly complex task (getting a coke) for a well defined reason (smelling the CO2, obviously), and completely unaware of why.

1.7
- bar code scanners - not at all
- search engines - per my definition about a body of techniques, yes
- voice recognition - same argument
- yup

1.8
Sure. I also don't know most of the details of my own biochemistry, but I manage to stay alive. 

1.9
Rationality makes the organism seek 'utility' - which means survival. This increases the chance that the organism will survive, which makes it evolutionarily favorable.

1.10
It's engineering. Engineering always directs and dips it's toe in science, but remains at base a craft (and occasionally an art). 

1.11
This is lovelace's argument. My desktop machine didn't start this morning, and wouldn't reboot. After fiddling with it a few minutes it came up fine. I seriously doubt anybody programmed that behavior in deliberately. 

1.12
 There's an ancient film of a lab rat who'se been trained to do an amazing sequence of things - the rat runs a maze, raises a flag, plays a song on a toy piano, etc etc.

1.13
yes, the latter is true. No, it does not imply the former (nor does it in 1.12 or 1.11)

1.14
a. yes
b. no
c. yes
d. no
e. yes - remember webvan
f. yes
g. yes
h. no
i. yes
j. yes
k. no, so called 'robot surgeons' are telechirs with some orientation info

1.15
An art advances not only by great imaginative leaps forward, but by acheiving some
quiet competency. The contests give an opportunity to 'really do it'. AI suffers from
a culture of BS - the contests cut through that.






